---
title: Research or Build - Pursuits of Youth
date: 2024-10-27
---

To spend one's youth researching or building, is a debate I've been having with myself these last few days. It's a personal question; It's answer is subjective to everyone's *personal*ity and *personal* experience. I'd like to share my own experience answering it. 

To the naturally curious research is a grand pursuit. Paid to learn, ask questions, and find answers. Better yet, likely the research is in an area that you want to advance for humanity. For the curious individual that likes to share and wants a deeper purpose, I think it's quite natural.
The caveat is that research will and should consume you. It should permeate your thoughts while you walk or bathe, and like an inseparable lover you will always return. Most likely it will take time as most of the easiest questions have already been answered. It's noble in its sacrifice.

------

This essay is delving more into what people should spend as their job during their youth. Youth should be spent guaranteeing financial freedom in the future. Then life should be lived and if lacking should be devoted towards advancing others (in general humanity). 
Financial freedom should be pursued early otherwise you will be tied down in the future. You want to be tied down in the future by choice. 
I'd like to talk about 
What should people spend their youth doing
Why people should pursue financial freedom
Why research is not the path to financial freedom
Ultimately why I want to spend more time building in my youth


-----

Conversely there is building, which I mean building usable products. Most people will not experience research advances until something is built which can properly make use of it. Gravity wasn't challenged until humans wanted to fly. Before then it was used to drive buffalos off cliffs. 


Research is continuous and the income is likely to be continuous.
Building is definite and the income is more definite.

Reserach also sounds scary. So many questions: about job security, truly providing value to your field, and the learning curve required to be at the top of any field for required research. 



My biggest concern about pursuing research is:
1. Freedom. While research is gratifying and pays well, there is an inherent lack of freedom in it. That lost time translates to lost experiences - and life wants to be lived. You're only given so much time, for family and for the world. And 


For a young adult without financial independence that sounds like sacrificing your youth for the possibility to advance humanity and walk away without much. That part about *financial independence* is a critical distinction. Most research roles are well paying. Then again many "jobs" are well paying and don't require the same dedication.
Those that pursue research should be satisfied with devoting the rest of their life to said research - that satisfaction should be through passion or a previous financial cushion. Why though? Why is the money important?
